# Resampling-Protocol
This repository contains script and data that were used to propose a new Bristol Bay resampling protocol at the May 2022 Crab Plan Team/June NPFMC Meeting. A change from the current 10% threshold (% of mature female BBRKC not yet molted and mated) to a 25% threshold was not supported by the NPFMC and will remain at 10%. 

# Background 
In colder years, a portion of the female Bristol Bay red king crab population has not yet completed the molt-mate cycle when Bristol Bay is surveyed during the NMFS eastern Bering Sea bottom trawl survey. Under these conditions, a subset of the Bristol Bay stations must be resampled later in the summer to improve the accuracy of the size composition data for post-molt female Bristol Bay red king crab. Secondary goals are to assess the reproductive status and abundance of these females after the molt-mate cycle is complete. Female Bristol Bay red king crab abundance and biomass estimates are calculated by replacing data collected on the original sampling date with data collected during resampling (for resampled stations only). In contrast, only the original survey data are used in calculating biomass and abundance estimates for male Bristol Bay red king crab.

# Current resampling protocol
Bristol Bay resampling is prompted if 10% or more of the mature females in the Bristol Bay District have not yet completed the molt-mate cycle. Females are considered to have an incomplete molt-mate cycle if they have any of the following clutch characteristics: 1) eyed eggs [x-2-x], 2) hatching eggs [0-5-x], 3) empty egg cases [0-4-1], or 4) barren; mature with no eggs [0-0-1]. Females that have completed the molt-mate cycle have uneyed eggs. If resampling is prompted, it will occur at 20 stations within the Bristol Bay District. Resample stations are selected based on the density of mature females during the initial sampling event. The resampling area will aim to include stations containing 80% of mature females with an incomplete molt-mate cycle sampled during the original survey, with consideration of the total mature female distribution. Priority is given to a contiguous block of resample stations, so long as the above criteria can be met.

# NOAA License
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject to copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United States/Department of Commerce reserve all rights to seek and obtain copyright protection in countries other than the United States for Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative works of the Software outside of the United States.
